articles/04-adapter-pattern.md, before:

# [Streamlining Data Flow in Angular: The Power of the Adapter Pattern 🔄](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/streamlining-data-flow-angular-power-adapter-pattern-jes%C3%BAs-bened%C3%A9-7op5f/?trackingId=dpqDQEcsQNC1qsrP2p9Dfg%3D%3D)

In modern web development, especially with Angular, we often grapple with data from various sources that don't align perfectly with our application's models. Enter the Adapter pattern - a game-changer for creating robust and maintainable Angular applications. Let's dive in!

🧩 What is the Adapter Pattern?
The Adapter pattern is a structural design pattern that allows objects with incompatible interfaces to collaborate. In Angular, we use it to transform external API data into a format our application can easily consume.

🌟 Why Use the Adapter Pattern?

- **Decoupling**: Separates data fetching from data shaping.
- **Flexibility**: Easily adapt to API changes without affecting the entire app.
- **Consistency**: Ensures uniform data structure throughout your application.
- **Testability**: Simplifies testing data transformations in isolation.

💻 Real-World Example
Let's look at a PodcastAdapter from a podcast app:

```typescript
import { Broadcast, Podcast } from '@models';

export const PodcastAdapter = (pods: Broadcast[]): Podcast[] =>
  pods.map((pod) => ({
    id: pod.id,
    title: pod.title,
    description: pod.description,
    image: pod.image,
    category: pod.category,
    rating: pod.average_rating,
    website: pod.website,
    subscribers: pod.subscribers,
    language: pod.language,
  }));
```

🔍 Breaking It Down

- **Input**: Array of Broadcast objects (raw API data)
- **Output**: Array of Podcast objects (our app's model)
- **Transformation**: Mapping each Broadcast to a Podcast, renaming properties as needed

```typescript
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class PodcastService {
  private readonly apiService = inject(ApiService);

  getAllPodcasts() {
    return toSignal(this.getAll());
  }

  getAll() {
    return this.apiService
      .get<Broadcast[]>(`${this.PATH}`)
      .pipe(map(PodcastAdapter));
  }
}
```

🛠️ Where to Use the Adapter
Typically in services, right after fetching API data:

🎯 Benefits in Action

1. **API Resilience**: Only update the adapter if API changes, not every component.
2. **Data Consistency**: Uniform podcast data structure across the app.
3. **Type Safety**: Leverage TypeScript for better error catching and IDE support.
4. **Isolated Testing**: Easily unit test the adapter function.

🚀 Best Practices

1. **Keep It Simple**: Focus solely on data transformation.
2. **Embrace TypeScript**: Define clear interfaces for input and output.
3. **Centralize Adapters**: Maintain a dedicated adapters folder.
4. **Consider Inverse Adapters**: For sending data back to the API.

💡 Pro Tip: Use adapters with Angular's new `toSignal()` function for seamless integration with the signals API!

🏁 Conclusion
The Adapter pattern is a powerful tool for managing the complexities of data transformation in Angular. It creates a clear boundary between external data and internal structures, enhancing maintainability, flexibility, and robustness.

As you build your next Angular masterpiece, consider how the Adapter pattern can elevate your data management game!

🤔 Have you used the Adapter pattern in your Angular projects? What challenges did it help you overcome? Let's discuss in the comments!!.

Commit message:

📝 (articles): update metadata for adapter and architecting articles
Add front matter metadata to the articles for better integration
with static site generators or content management systems. This
includes title, description, tags, and cover image, which enhance
SEO and content discoverability.

🔧 (migrations.json): update migration scripts for new Nx version

Update migration scripts to reflect changes in the Nx package
versioning, ensuring compatibility with the latest features and
improvements. This helps maintain a smooth upgrade path for users.

⬆️ (package.json): upgrade Nx dependencies to version 20.3.1

Upgrade Nx-related dependencies to version 20.3.1 to leverage
new features, bug fixes, and performance improvements. Keeping
dependencies up-to-date ensures the project remains secure and
efficient.

articles/04-adapter-pattern.md, after:

---
title: 'Streamlining Data Flow in Angular: The Power of the Adapter Pattern 🔄'
published: false
description: 'Discover how the Adapter Pattern can streamline data flow in your Angular applications.'
tags: 'Angular, patterns, adapter, architecture'
cover_image: ./assets/adapter-pattern.png
---

In modern web development, especially with Angular, we often grapple with data from various sources that don't align perfectly with our application's models. Enter the Adapter pattern - a game-changer for creating robust and maintainable Angular applications. Let's dive in!

🧩 What is the Adapter Pattern?
The Adapter pattern is a structural design pattern that allows objects with incompatible interfaces to collaborate. In Angular, we use it to transform external API data into a format our application can easily consume.

🌟 Why Use the Adapter Pattern?

- **Decoupling**: Separates data fetching from data shaping.
- **Flexibility**: Easily adapt to API changes without affecting the entire app.
- **Consistency**: Ensures uniform data structure throughout your application.
- **Testability**: Simplifies testing data transformations in isolation.

💻 Real-World Example
Let's look at a PodcastAdapter from a podcast app:

```typescript
import { Broadcast, Podcast } from '@models';

export const PodcastAdapter = (pods: Broadcast[]): Podcast[] =>
  pods.map((pod) => ({
    id: pod.id,
    title: pod.title,
    description: pod.description,
    image: pod.image,
    category: pod.category,
    rating: pod.average_rating,
    website: pod.website,
    subscribers: pod.subscribers,
    language: pod.language,
  }));
```

🔍 Breaking It Down

- **Input**: Array of Broadcast objects (raw API data)
- **Output**: Array of Podcast objects (our app's model)
- **Transformation**: Mapping each Broadcast to a Podcast, renaming properties as needed

```typescript
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class PodcastService {
  private readonly apiService = inject(ApiService);

  getAllPodcasts() {
    return toSignal(this.getAll());
  }

  getAll() {
    return this.apiService
      .get<Broadcast[]>(`${this.PATH}`)
      .pipe(map(PodcastAdapter));
  }
}
```

🛠️ Where to Use the Adapter
Typically in services, right after fetching API data:

🎯 Benefits in Action

1. **API Resilience**: Only update the adapter if API changes, not every component.
2. **Data Consistency**: Uniform podcast data structure across the app.
3. **Type Safety**: Leverage TypeScript for better error catching and IDE support.
4. **Isolated Testing**: Easily unit test the adapter function.

🚀 Best Practices

1. **Keep It Simple**: Focus solely on data transformation.
2. **Embrace TypeScript**: Define clear interfaces for input and output.
3. **Centralize Adapters**: Maintain a dedicated adapters folder.
4. **Consider Inverse Adapters**: For sending data back to the API.

💡 Pro Tip: Use adapters with Angular's new `toSignal()` function for seamless integration with the signals API!

🏁 Conclusion
The Adapter pattern is a powerful tool for managing the complexities of data transformation in Angular. It creates a clear boundary between external data and internal structures, enhancing maintainability, flexibility, and robustness.

As you build your next Angular masterpiece, consider how the Adapter pattern can elevate your data management game!

🤔 Have you used the Adapter pattern in your Angular projects? What challenges did it help you overcome? Let's discuss in the comments!!.
